---
layout: page
title: Videos
description: Videos of my robotics work.
---

## Videos

Successful robotics projects lend themselves to interesting
videos. Below are videos I've made for some of my recent projects.

### Autonomous Car Driving in Reno, Nevada

<p>I have written a software stack optimized for self-driving in
suburban settings. Originally inspired by the architecture of Baidu's
Apollo platform, this video shows my ROS-based system, nicknamed
Artemis, driving our Lincoln MKZ in suburban Reno.</p>

<p style="text-align:center">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/UNSX7YNIygc" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>
</p>

### Beacon-Based Collision Avoidance

<p>My team worked with a Canadian startup in 2021 and 2022 to
demonstrate beacon-based pedestrian collision avoidance. The idea
shown in the video below is that a pedestrian's iPhone app broadcasts
in real time its owner's position to a server. As it is driving, the
autonomous car queries that server to obtain the positions of nearby
pedestrians. Using this data enables the car's motion planner to plan
safer trajectories in the presence of sensor range limitations and
occlusion.</p>

<p>This video shows one of the few tests where I was not the safety
driver. Instead, I am the pedestrian running the app on my phone. You
can see me walking into the path of the car, which autonomously stops
as I walk out from behind a tree.</p>

<p style="text-align:center">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/jLeni-IW6nE" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>

### Automated Vehicle Simulation

<p>There are many capable self-driving car simulators, but our
simulation needs have tended not to align with the features provided
by current open-source solutions, which focus on 3D worlds. We rarely
need such graphics for our projects, but we must be able to accurately
simulate vehicle dynamics, planning, and control. Consequently, I
wrote a custom vehicle simulator, which uses simple OpenGL-based
graphics and an Entity Component System (ECS) architecture that
enables flexible simulation of vehicle and pedestrian
behaviors. Thanks to its flexibility, we have used this simulator to
rapidly prototype and debug controllers (including our current model
predictive controller) and planners.</p>

<p>The video below shows a simulated pedestrian (the circle) crossing
the path of a self-driving car (the rectangle). The car is following a
path that was loaded from an actual drive of the physical Lincoln
MKZ. The data for this simulation was generated as part of the
beacon-based collision avoidance project described in the previous
video.</p>

<p style="text-align:center">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/pNe_gpRyW_A" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>

### ROS-based Autonomous Vehicle Visualization

<p>My Artemis platform was initially inspired by Baidu's Apollo
framework. However, the Apollo framework moved away from ROS and
relied on custom middleware for critical components. One of my goals
in developing a self-driving car software stack was to minimize
dependencies outside of the ROS ecosystem as much as possible. But my
team ran into difficulties with certain parts of ROS almost
immediately, particularly around data management and
visualization. The video below shows some of the difficulty of using
ROS bags with the RVIZ visualizer. To overcome the shortcomings of
ROS, I developed tools for data processing and visualization that
could successfully deal with the large volume of data generated by a
self-driving car.</p>

<p style="text-align:center">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/MsfpRpnVhpE" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>
